Centralized LabVantage Test Data for Oncology Department
Overview
This project centralizes the data from LabVantage tests for the oncology department. The system ingests, transforms, validates, and stores test results while leveraging Apache Kafka for real-time data streaming. The data is then stored in a SQLite database, where it can be retrieved, aggregated, and visualized.

Features
Data Ingestion: Fetches simulated test data from LabVantage.
Data Transformation: Converts data into a standardized format.
Data Validation: Ensures the completeness and correctness of the data.
Real-time Streaming: Uses Kafka to stream data to a topic and consume it.
Data Storage: Saves the processed data in a SQLite database.
Data Retrieval: Allows querying of the stored data.
Data Aggregation: Aggregates data for summary reports.
Data Visualization: Prints data summaries (can be extended to use visualization libraries).
Error Handling and Logging: Captures and logs errors for monitoring and debugging.
Components
Kafka Producer and Consumer:

initialize_kafka_producer(): Initializes a Kafka producer to send messages.
initialize_kafka_consumer(): Initializes a Kafka consumer to receive messages.
Data Handling:

fetch_labvantage_data(): Simulates the fetching of LabVantage test data.
transform_data(data): Converts the data into a standardized format.
validate_data(data): Validates the data against required fields.
Kafka Integration:

stream_to_kafka(producer, data): Streams data to a Kafka topic.
Database Operations:

save_to_database(data): Saves the transformed data into a SQLite database.
retrieve_data_from_db(query): Retrieves data from the SQLite database using a SQL query.
aggregate_data(): Aggregates data for analysis.
Visualization:

visualize_data(df): Prints a summary of the data.
Error Handling:

error_handling_example(): Demonstrates error handling and logging.
Getting Started
Prerequisites
Python 3.7 or later.
Kafka running locally or accessible remotely.
SQLite3 (included with Python standard library).
Installation
Clone the Repository:

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/imdadMahammed/GEN-AI-HLS.git
cd labvantage-centralization
Install Required Packages:
Use the following command to install the required Python packages:

bash
Copy code
pip install kafka-python pandas
Set Up Kafka:
Ensure Kafka is running on your local machine or accessible remotely. Adjust the KAFKA_SERVER and KAFKA_TOPIC constants in the script if necessary.

Running the Script
Execute the script to centralize LabVantage test data:

bash
Copy code
python centralize_labvantage_tests.py
Configuration
You can configure the Kafka server and topic by editing these variables in the script:

python
Copy code
KAFKA_SERVER = 'localhost:9092'
KAFKA_TOPIC = 'oncology_labvantage_tests'
Usage
Simulating Data Ingestion: The script generates random test data to simulate fetching from LabVantage.
Transforming and Validating Data: The script processes and checks the integrity of the data.
Streaming to Kafka: The validated data is streamed to a Kafka topic.
Saving to Database: The data is stored in a SQLite database (oncology_labvantage.db).
Retrieving and Aggregating Data: Data can be queried and aggregated from the SQLite database.
Visualizing Data: The script prints a summary of the data, which can be extended to graphical visualizations.
Files
centralize_labvantage_tests.py: The main script containing all the functions and logic for data centralization.
requirements.txt: List of required Python packages.
Error Handling
The script includes basic error handling and logging. Adjust the logging level and error handling as necessary for your environment.

Extending the Project
Data Source Integration: Replace the fetch_labvantage_data function with actual data fetching from LabVantage.
Visualization Enhancements: Use visualization libraries like matplotlib or seaborn for advanced data visualization.
Database Expansion: Switch from SQLite to a more robust database system like PostgreSQL or MySQL for handling larger datasets.
Deployment: Containerize the application using Docker for easier deployment and scaling.
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Contact
For questions or contributions, please reach out to: ikonda.mohd@gmail.com

Your Name: Imdad K Mahammed
GitHub: imdadMahammed
